- [Teacher] So let's now understand the demo
for expression language.
We are going to work on the same profiler JSP
that we will use our JSP standard actions.
And we will do now evaluate
and display all the data using expression language.
For that, let me make one change in view profile.
So, we've already got the user information in here.
So we just display that user profile.
However, we're going to make one more table
on this profile JSP, which is basically the weight summary.
The weight summary for that particular logged in user
is going to be displayed for the months of
January, February, and March.
So what were going to do, is we're going to first clear
that weight summary detail.
Now, the thing is that you could of course
pull this entire weight information from the database
as a part of this call itself, you can do that.
However, I'm just trying to create the data right now
in the form of for map, on this servlet called itself.
You're free to pull it off from the database,
no problem with that at all.
So let me create a map object here.
I'm going to create a map and it is going to store value,
of course, in the form of key in value.
The key will be the name of the month,
so let me put that as a string,
and the weight will be in the form of double.
Alright, let me give this map a name and say new hashmap.
So this is a Java collection object that I'm using
and on line number 31, we're going to fill up values in the map
so I'm going to say weight summary dot put.
Let's put the data for the month of January
and the value should be 67.9, let's say.
(typing)
And then I'm again going to put in the weight for
the month of February so they key will be February
and the value, let's say the logged in user
tried to reduce the weight so let's say 65.9, maybe.
And we will copy this line 32 and again paste it on line 33
to accommodate the weight of March.
So, that is going to be, let's say, 64.8, let's say, okay?
Now, I'm going to go ahead and do one more thing.
I'm going to take this weight summary
and store it in the request as an attribute.
So let's go to line number 37
and the way we have stored the user object,
we'll store the wight summary map as well.
So let's say it's set attribute, give it a name,
let's say weight summary,
and the actual object will be the value for this attribute.
There we go.
So now, let's go ahead and come to profiler JSP,
and we're going to access all the information now
with the expression language, right?
So for that, I need to eliminate this
because I do not need this anymore, line number 36
where I used the JSP standard action.
I don't need this with expression language,
so I'm going to get that off.
Now, let's come down there and this is the table
that displays the profile information
which is the username field at line number 43.
For that, I have to evaluate an expression and display data.
Let me get rid of the JPS standard action,
because instead of that,
I'm going to use expression language.
So how does your expression look like?
There's a dollar sign, of course,
and there's a curly pair of braces, right?
And under this, I'm going to write my expression.
So now I can say user dot username.
Where did this come from?
User is basically the key of the object
that you've stored in the request scope, right?
If you look at view profile server, that was your key
on line number 36.
So I'm using that key and I'm accessing
the instance variable of that bean.
What do I mean by that?
That is your user bean after you created an object, right?
So I'm just picking up the instance variable name
and directly entering that as part of that expression.
That's all that you have to do.
That is all that you have to write as an expression
in order to print this username to the JSP page.
So let's do a similar thing for all the other fields.
I'm going to take this from line number 44, copy,
and paste it on line number 48, okay?
And let's change this property to first name, that's all.
Right? Again, let's take the expression and paste it
on line number 52 and I'm going to change the name
of the property.
This time I want to evaluate and print last name.
Similarly, the thing will go with it to line number 56.
I'm going to paste that expression
and access the age property.
And on line number 60,
let me again paste that expression first,
and change this to the activity property.
So do you see how simple it is to write expressions
and evaluate and display your data?
Now you must be wondering
how did it understand that, it has to pick up
this user object from the request scope.
Because when we specified the JSP standard actions mechanism
we are explicitly mention that you're supposed to
pick up this object from the request scope.
However, here, in expression language,
you don't have to do that.
Because expression language is smart enough.
What it does, is, if you have not mentioned any scope here
in your expression itself, then it is going to search
this object by they key user, by the name user,
in those four scopes.
The page scope, the request, the session,
and then the application, in that order.
So wherever it finds out that object,
it's automatically going to pick it up for you
and you can use it for displaying your data.
So that way, expression language is smarter, okay?
Let's also do one more thing,
let's display the weight summary.
So, I already have that map that I have
prepared in the view profile servlet
and I've stored it under the request scope.
So now let's just go ahead and display those values.
So there's a table here from lines number 67 to 82,
which is displaying the weight summary.
So I've already got the labels ready for the January month,
I just have to go ahead and display the weight.
So how am I going to access that map
using expression language?
Let's see that.
So let's first enter the syntax for expression language,
like that...
And this time I'm going to do it a little differently.
I'm going to say request scope dot...
What is the key of that map?
Let's pick it up from the view profile servlet,
line number 37, let's pick it up and put it there, right?
And now if I want to access the value of the key January,
I just have to enter this pair of square brackets
and mention the month name in quotes.
So what the syntax is effectively doing is,
it is picking up the weight summary object
from the request scope
and it is accessing the key of that map, January.
So when I access the key, it is going to bring the value
under this column for me on the page.
Right? Let's take this line number 71,
let's take this expression, copy, and paste it
for the month of February and March.
Now, the only thing that we have to change is,
on line number 75, I just have to say February,
and here, I have to say March, that's all.
You must also be wondering as to
where is this request scope name coming from?
How did I write request scope?
That is because, if you look at a JSP implicit objects,
we have request as the implicit object for the request.
Right?
But in expression language, the implicit object,
which can help you access the data of the request object,
the name for it is request scope.
We are anyway going to talk about the EL implicit objects
quickly in a brief--in the next video,
but this is just to introduce you
so that there's no confusion around here.
This is trying to access the request scope
and trying to get this weight summary map
out of which I'm accessing the value for the key January.
That is what this means.
So let's now do one thing,
let's go ahead and deploy these changes
and check out on the browser.
So let me log in.
(typing)
And let me click on view my profile, and do you see
that it is displaying all of that information now
using expression language.
We're going to do one more thing.
Let's say that this 67.9kg, 65.9kg, 64.8kg
or let's say if it were pounds.
So what you could do is, if you wanted to display that data
in either of the units, let's say it is in kg right now
and you want to display it in pounds,
you can quickly go ahead and just
evaluate and edit the operation using expression language
on the page and get this done.
So let's say I'm going to go ahead and say
on the page of profiler JSP,
let's come here and...
This is that expression, which is giving me the weight,
so I could easily say divide by two,
or I could say multiply by two, whichever unit that
you may want to display the information in, right?
So either of the operatives will work
and basically this is an arithmetical expression
that I am trying to write.
So I can do the same thing, let's say here I want to say
divide by two, right?
So that also could be done.
So let me just go ahead and check the changes.
So this is a change only to the JSP,
so if I just refresh this page,
the changes are going to take effect.
This is the case with JSP alone.
If you just change something in a JSP
and you refresh a browser, the changes take effect.
However, if you change in the servlet Java files,
then you will have to do a redeployment
and a restart of the server.
If you change your XML files, you just need a restart.
Right? So let's refresh this page.
And do you see? I get the changed values now.
So according whichever unit
I want to display the information,
you can go ahead and simply evaluate
those expressions using operators.
This is what expression language can do for you.
There's no need to store these values separately
from the server side and then get it to the page.
You can just quickly, on the fly, do these operations here
with all the operators that we have.
Arithmetic, relational, and logical.
So this is overall how do you use expression language
on a page.